# VIS145B-Final
Made in Spring of 2016 at the University of California, San Diego.

As a final project, with little to no experience in coding, I wrote a program that would result in a collaborative drawing between human and machine. The prompt was to create a program that would work towards a goal, but change the path to the goal over time with user input.

My vision for this project was to prove that one doesn't necessarily have to be good at drawing to create art. As an artist, I would hear many of my friends sulk about how they wished they "could draw" or that they need an expensive camera to be a photographer. That simply isn't true and the only way I could show them that anyone could be an artist, was through this program. All you had to do is to have the intention and the machine will change and work with you, no matter what you do.

Although I had a limited understanding of coding at the time, I was determined to complete the logic of it. With the help of my instructor, I was able to make a simple version of it. The user can "spawn" boids that will draw in a color of the users choice. Boids have an algorithm that imitate flocking birds. A boid will never collide with another, but will always stay close. If a boid is on its own, it will find the closest group of boids to join. The direction a boid travels in is the average direction of the boids around it. When a user draws a line, the boids will avoid colliding with the line, allowing the user to guide where the boids go, and what to color. If a user draws a circle around a boid, the boid will color in the circle. If the user decides not to draw lines, the user can simply spawn boids and study their interactions and behavior.

The ultimate goal was to use it as an interactive art installation. Users can draw on a wall mounted touch screen while the machine's boids color between your lines. When the piece is complete, you can print your work and take it home. This combination is what I precieve as a balanced marriage between human, machine, nature, and art.
